**MegaMatcher fingerprint template extraction and matching engine**
Full MINEX Compliance. NIST has recognized MegaMatcher fingerprint algorithm as MINEX compliant and suitable for use in personal identity verification (PIV) program applications.
Rolled and flat fingerprints matching. The MegaMatcher fingerprint engine matches rolled and flat fingerprints between themselves. Typically, conventional "flat" fingerprint identification algorithms perform matching between flat and rolled fingerprints less reliably due to the specific deformations of rolled fingerprints. MegaMatcher allows flat-to-flat, flat-to-rolled or rolled-to-rolled fingerprint matching with a high degree of reliability and accuracy. The algorithm matches up to 200,000 flat fingerprint records per second on a single PC.
MegaMatcher includes fingerprint image quality determination, which may be used during enrollment to ensure that only the best quality fingerprint template will be stored in the database.
Template generalization is used to generate a better quality template from several fingerprints. Better quality templates result in a higher level of identification accuracy.
MegaMatcher is tolerant to fingerprint translation, rotation and deformation. It uses a proprietary fingerprint matching algorithm that identifies fingerprints even if they are rotated, translated or have deformations.
Adaptive image filtration algorithm eliminates noises, ridge ruptures and stuck ridges, and reliably extracting minutiae from even the poorest quality fingerprints in less than 1 second.
